CASMNET-1534 - manual backport of CASMNET-1534-csm-1.2 to main (#1935)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/network/management_network/bican_technical_summary.md

# BICAN Summary

Bifurcated CAN was designed to separate administrative network traffic and user network traffic.

![network traffic pattern](img/network_traffic_pattern.png)

## BICAN terminology

- BICAN – Bifurcated Customer Access Network
- CAN – Customer Access Network
- CMN – Customer Management Network
- CHN – Customer High Speed Network
- NMN – Node Management Network
- HMN – Hardware Management Network

## BICAN features

- Bifurcation or splitting of the Customer Access Network (CAN) enables customization of customer traffic to and from the system.
Customization will be performed during installation.

> In CSM 1.2, as part of the process to split the existing monolithic CAN, two new customer access networks are introduced:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CSM 1.2, as part of the process to split the existing monolithic CAN, two new customer access networks were introduced:
```

  - High Speed Customer Access - CHN: This feature adds the ability to connect to Application Nodes (UAN), UAI, Compute Nodes,
and Kubernetes API endpoints from the customer site via the High Speed Network (HSN).
  - Management Customer Access - CMN:  Using a new VLAN on the Management Network, this feature allows system administrative access from the customer site.

> Administrative access was previously available on the original CAN; this feature provides a traffic path and access split.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to CSM 1.2, administrative access was previously available on the original CAN; this feature provided a traffic path and access split.
```
